                       ||   Force Modeling for Oblique Cutting on Non-Planar Surfaces   ||
Author: Ayush Bandil
roll number: 12D100033
Contact details: ayushbandil0007@gmail.com, 9769474580
Year of graduation: 2017

The folder contains code in matlab and in C#. 
All the reference images are drown in powerpoint. 
The ppt's are present in "images PPT" folder.

Abstract: 
	Precision machining is one of the most important and widely used manufacturing processes these days. A very tight tolerance limit over free form surfaces
is required in some industries like aerospace and defense. This can be achieved by introducing two more degrees of freedom (the lead and tilt angles) to 
the conventional 3-axis milling process in order to reduce cutting forces. This report focuses on the development of a methodology to predict cutting forces
and the torque generated during multi-axis generic profile milling processes. This report focuses on development of three different models. The first model
is developed assuming a planar workpiece and a ball-end cutting tool having only horizontal feed of tool. The second model is developed for ball-end mill 
on planar surfaces having vertical feed along with the horizontal feed. Finally, the third model is for general milling having cutting edge wrapped around 
the tool envelope. Later the third model is extended to incorporate different kinds of workpiece profiles. All these models are based on the mechanistic 
approach in which basic orthogonal cutting parameters of the shear-zone are determined by using a regression curve fitting of several experimental results.
 
	The Orthogonal Cutting Database (OCD), which converts orthogonal cutting parameters to oblique cutting parameters is developed for Titanium alloy. 
The methodology follows a modular approach to model the forces. The tool surface is discretized into smaller elements first and then the forces are calculated 
considering each element undergoing the orthogonal cutting process. The elemental forces are added up to give the net force experienced by the cutting tool. 
To validate the results, the results are benchmarked against data in published literature. The maximum force is calculated using the given values of lead and 
tilt angles. Furthermore, lead and tilt angles are determined to minimize the maximum cutting force at any angular position of the tool. These lead and tilt 
angles will result in the most precise machining process. The model can be further used for selection of other machining parameters and several aspects of 
machining processes from tool-geometry design which will reduce the cutting forces and torque on the cutting tool.